            Ushahidi was implemented to help victims after an earthquake in Torabia. Earthquake victims are interested in receiving resources they need: supplies and medical assistance. Aid workers want to help earthquake victims so they use the map to identify locations where resources need to be delivered. Part-3 is an opponent coalition. Part-3 believes foreigners threaten Torabian self-reliance, and use the map to find and attack aid workers and locals collaborating with foreigners. The government did not protect foreign aid workers despite wanting to assist their citizens because they are also sympathetic to Part-3.      Aid workers using Ushahidi for humanitarian purposes encountered infrastructure problems before Part-3. Electricity and cellular connection are fundamental infrastructure components that are missing because Ushahidi is being deployed in the middle of a natural disaster zone. Despite a demand for accurate information, the data source, crowdsourcing,  is not inherently reliable. Aid workers had to analyze reports for actionable information causing delays and errors: contradicting reports, locations and described problems lacked accuracy. Earthquake victims were unable to send reports because there is no cellular connection. Some aid workers could not view the map because of software bugs or a lack computer access. Part-3 took advantage of the open access feature by using the maps to find and attack aid workers and locals.      Ushahidi’s original purpose was to promote situational awareness, and was not designed to be a reliable news source. The developers failed to consider implications of the platform being used for humanitarian purposes. The new requirements include making the crowdsourcing data reliable, algorithms to sift through data, allow people to send messages without network connection, allow universal access, and create features that prevent misuse. These requirements are not feasible. It is impossible to allow universal access with a lack of electricity, and prevent the opponent coalition from using the maps. The algorithms required are too complex because this technology has not been created. No method has been developed that allows data transfer without cellular connection. Ushahidi is a complex problem, and should not be used for humanitarian purposes in natural disaster situations.        